# Workery 1.2 → Cerces 2.0

Previously known as Workery (supporting exclusively Cloudflare Workers runtime), Cerces 2.0 is a complete overhaul of the framework, focusing on type safety, developer experience, and runtime flexibility. To upgrade your project from Workery 1.2 to Cerces 2.0, please follow the steps below.

Assuming the project continues to run on Cloudflare Workers, create a new Cerces project using the CLI:

::: code-group
```sh [bun]
bun create cerces@latest
```

```sh [pnpm]
pnpm create cerces@latest
```

```sh [npm]
npm create cerces@latest
```
:::

Select the `cf-workers` template, and follow the prompts to set up your new project. Once the new project is created, you can begin migrating your existing Workery code to Cerces.

## Breaking Type Changes

Several type changes have been made to improve type safety and developer experience. Please review the following changes and update your code accordingly:

### `App` and `Router` level parameters.

The `App` and `Router` classes have been reworked to support app-level and router-level parameters, as well as app-router parameter inheritance. The generics associated to these classes have been reworked. However, **these generics are not designed to be manually specified in most cases, and the framework will infer the types automatically**. The previously provided `Env` type parameter has been removed, please refer to the `Env` section below for migration instructions.

You can now define parameters at the `App` or `Router` level, which will be inherited by all routes within that scope. For example:

```ts
const app = new App({
    parameters: {
        apiKey: Header(z.string()), // All routes will require this header
    },
    // ...
})
```

Routers now "bases" off of a parent `App` or `Router`, carrying over its parameters typings:

```ts
import { Base, Router } from "cerces"
import type app from "./index"
// ^ IMPORTANT: import the type only to avoid circular dependency

const router = new Router({
    base: Base<typeof app>(),
    // ^ Carry over parameters types from the parent app or router
    parameters: {
        userId: Path(z.string().uuid()),
        // ^ All routes in this router will require this path param
    },
    // ...
})
```

This removes the need to repeatedly specify common parameters for each route, and ensures consistent parameter requirements across your application.

### Removed `Env` in favor of `runtime.d.ts`

The `Env` type parameter has been removed from the `App`, `Router`, `Dependency`, and `Middleware` classes. Instead, the types of runtime arguments (e.g. `env`, `ctx`) are now defined using `runtime.d.ts` file in your project. This is an effort to support multiple runtimes, without coupling the types to the framework generics.

The `runtime.d.ts` file is automatically generated when you create a new Cerces project using the CLI and is already configured to use the appropriate types for your selected runtime (`Cloudflare.Env`).

To migrate your existing `env` type definitions, migrate your `wrangler.toml` to the new `wrangler.jsonc` format, refer to this [documentation](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/wrangler/configuration/), then run the following command to generate the new `worker-configuration.d.ts` file:

::: code-group
```sh [bun]
bun cf-typegen
```

```sh [pnpm]
pnpm cf-typegen
```

```sh [npm]
npm run cf-typegen
```
:::

### Parameter Flattening

A new improvement is added to parameter types and route handlers, the nested parameters defined in dependencies are now flattened into the route handler's parameters. This means that if a route depends on multiple dependencies, the parameters from all dependencies will be brought to the top level for the route handler. This reduces the need for nested destructuring in route handlers.

For example, consider the following dependencies and route:

```ts
import { Dependency, Query, Depends } from "cerces" // [!code focus]
import { z } from "zod"

const userPrefs = new Dependency({ // [!code focus]
    parameters: { // [!code focus:4]
        theme: Query(z.enum(["light", "dark"])),
        lang: Query(z.string())
    },
    handle: ({ theme, lang }) => {
        return { theme, lang }
    }
})

const requireAuth = new Dependency({ // [!code focus]
    parameters: { // [!code focus:4]
        authorization: Header(z.string()),
        userPrefs: Depends(userPrefs) // nested dependency
    },
    handle: async ({ authorization, userPrefs }) => { // [!code focus:3]
        const user = /* authenticate user */
        return { ...user, preferences: userPrefs }
    }
})

app.get("/profile", {
    parameters: {
        user: Depends(requireAuth), // only declare the top-level dependency // [!code focus]
    },
    handle: ({ user, theme, lang, authorization }) => { // [!code focus:3]
        // `theme`, `lang`, `authorization` are available
        // without declaring them in route parameters!
        return {
            user: user,
            theme: theme,
            lang: lang
        }
    },
})
```

### Restriction on duplicate parameter names

To avoid ambiguity and potential conflicts, Cerces enforces a restriction on duplicate parameter names across apps, routers, routes, and dependencies. If a parameter name is already defined on a higher level (e.g., app or router), it cannot be redefined in a nested scope (e.g., route or dependency), a **new parameter name** must be used.

For example, if an app defines a parameter named `apiKey`, a route within that app cannot define another parameter with the same name. This ensures that each parameter name is unique within its scope, preventing confusion and potential errors during request handling.


## Breaking API Changes

A detailed list of breaking changes is provided below. Please review each change and update your code accordingly.

### Renamed `workery/*` to `cerces/*`

All `workery/*` packages have been renamed to `cerces/*`. Update your import statements accordingly:

```ts
import { App } from "workery" // [!code --]
import { App } from "cerces" // [!code ++]
```

### Removed `workery/applications`

The `workery/applications` module has been renamed to `cerces/core`. Update your import statements accordingly:

```ts
import { App } from "workery/applications" // [!code --]
import { App } from "cerces/core" // [!code ++]
```

### Removed `workery/dependencies`

The `workery/dependencies` module has been dropped, and the `Dependency` class has been moved to `cerces/core`, along with its associated functionality, it is still available at index import `cerces`. Update your import statements accordingly:

```ts
import { Dependency } from "workery/dependencies" // [!code --]
import { Dependency } from "cerces/core" // or // [!code ++]
import { Dependency } from "cerces" // [!code ++]
```

### Removed `workery/middleware`

The `workery/middleware` module has been dropped, and the `Middleware` class has been moved to `cerces/core`, along with its associated functionality, it is still available at index import `cerces`. Update your import statements accordingly:

```ts
import { Middleware } from "workery/middleware" // [!code --]
import { Middleware } from "cerces/core" // or // [!code ++]
import { Middleware } from "cerces" // [!code ++]
```

The built-in middleware `cors` and `compress` has been moved to its own module, the factory functions has also been renamed with `create` prefix to `createCorsMiddleware` and `createCompressMiddleware` for action clarity. Update your import statements accordingly:

```ts
import { corsMiddleware } from "workery/middleware" // [!code --]
import { createCorsMiddleware } from "cerces/cors" // [!code ++]
```

```ts
import { compressMiddleware } from "workery/middleware" // [!code --]
import { createCompressMiddleware } from "cerces/compress" // [!code ++]
```

### Parameter declarators now importable on index

To reduce import verbosity, all members of the module `workery/parameters` (now `cerces/parameters`) are now re-exported on the index import `cerces`. You can now import them directly from `cerces`:

```ts
import { Query, Header, Path, Cookie, Body } from "workery/parameters" // [!code --]
import { Query, Header, Path, Cookie, Body } from "cerces" // [!code ++]
```

### Moved JSON coercion helpers

The JSON coercion helpers `jsonCoerce` and `isJsonCoercible` have been moved to `cerces/parameters`. Update your import statements accordingly:

```ts
import { jsonCoerce, isJsonCoercible } from "workery/helpers" // [!code --]
import { jsonCoerce, isJsonCoercible } from "cerces/parameters" // [!code ++]
```

### Response classes now importable on index

To reduce import verbosity, all response classes from the module `workery/responses` (now `cerces/responses`) are now re-exported on the index import `cerces`. You can now import them directly from `cerces`:

```ts
import { JSONResponse, PlainTextResponse } from "workery/responses" // [!code --]
import { JSONResponse, PlainTextResponse } from "cerces" // [!code ++]
```

### Renamed `exceptionHandler` to `errorHandler`

Exception is a more specific term than error, and is less commonly used in JavaScript/TypeScript ecosystem. To improve clarity, the `exceptionHandler` option has been renamed to `errorHandler`. Update your code accordingly:

```ts
const app = new App({
    // ...
    exceptionHandler: (error) => { /* ... */ } // [!code --]
    errorHandler: (error) => { /* ... */ } // [!code ++]
})
```

### Removed helper `baseExceptionHandler`

The default error handler is now defined inline on the `App` class init, to replace it, simply provide a new error handler function to the `errorHandler` option. The `baseExceptionHandler` helper has been removed.

### Renamed members of `workery/renderers`

The `workery/renderers` module has been renamed to `cerces/renderers`, and the members have been renamed for clarity using the `create` prefix. Update your import statements accordingly:

```ts
import { renderSwagger, renderRedoc } from "workery/renderers" // [!code --]
import { createSwaggerHTML, createRedocHTML } from "cerces/renderers" // [!code ++]
```

